This is the Gospel Matthew podcast from Pernida Bay Methodist Church.
Today is February the 24th and our passage is Matthew chapter 19.
I'm Levi Gardner.
Thank you for joining us.
Jesus covers much ground in the 19th chapter.
But two things that I would like to lift up as we look at the whole of this chapter is the conversation that Jesus has around children and the conversation that Jesus has.
around marriage.
Throughout the New Testament, we see Jesus giving his clearest teaching, his clearest declaration on God's understanding of New Testament marriage, and therefore the marriage that is to be considered within the church found in Matthew chapter 19.
Jesus grounds it in the order of creation found in the book of Genesis, which is why in 19.4 he says, haven't you read that he who created them in the beginning
therefore being God.
And we also know that Jesus is present with God at creation.
And so therefore Jesus that he who created them in the beginning made them male and female.
And he also said, for this reason, the man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife and the two will become one flesh.
Here we see Jesus grounding the commandment to the singularity of marriage and the understanding of marriage.
found in Matthew chapter 19.
Of course, we didn't recognize that Jesus himself was single.
We know that Paul lifts up the understanding to celibacy and the call to singleness as well.
This helps lay out for us the understanding of how the Christian church is to approach the understanding of marriage and why the church has taken this understanding to be the historical definition over the last 2000 years of teaching within the life of the church.
Jesus grounds it in the order of creation that God chose to make for the complimentary nature of man and woman.
And Jesus begins to continue in this teaching of great significance, moving on from the conversation about marriage to then the conversation around children.
Jesus embraces the kids that are entrusted to Him.
In fact, he rebukes the disciples who try to keep the children away from him.
This signifies for us the understanding and the centrality that children must have within the life of the community of faith.
For any to make it to adulthood, we must pass first through childhood.
We, at times, can forget that we all were once children, innocent, dependent on our parents.
Subject to
needing to learn, to grow, to make mistakes, to be offered grace and to be offered the opportunity to be children.
May we always see the intense focus that Jesus has on receiving and blessing children for who they are, giving them a place in the eyes of God and in the community, the faith.
Jesus was not too busy, too consumed, too concerned to stop.
and to bless and to be present with the children.
He says, because the kingdom of heaven belongs to such is these.
Moving from the innocence of children, then Jesus begins having the conversation with what we have known in the text is the rich young ruler.
We see here the disappointment that he has when he is invited to give all that he has and to follow Jesus.
This passage of Jesus and the rich young ruler, I believe, is one of the greatest examples we have of the free will that God gives us.
Jesus engages in a conversation with this man, offers him his free gift of salvation, knowing that all of us must sacrifice when we come to follow Jesus to lay whatever it is that is causing
division between us and God that is that chasm that separates us from being fully reconciled.
God's grace is sufficient to save, but He calls us to be transformed.
What we have here is a refusal of this man to do what God invites him to do, and Jesus allows him to walk away.
When we consider Matthew chapter 19, we hear the high calling
that it is to be a follower of Jesus, that there are boundaries to our conduct, that there are definitions given by Jesus that sacrifices are expected to be made, and that God does not force any of us to do anything that lays out for us the narrow path of life that leads to flourishing and to fulfillment.
May we reflect on the gift of Matthew chapter 19 in the many ways that it speaks to all of us
throughout our lives as we find ourselves living out the Christian faith and the gathered assembly of the saints, the local church, the gift that God has given us to grow, to serve, to worship, and to offer love to God and love to one another as Christ has commanded us to do.